---
layout: post
title: Loneliness
---
Human beings are hardwired to want to feel accepted, valued, loved, and seen. We are social creatures who evolved to live in groups having their traditions, rituals, values, faith, recipes, etc., and yet today, sadly, many people around the globe suffer from loneliness and depression since they don’t feel connected to anyone and thus are unable to share their pain, to confide, to spend quality time, to make memories with, etc. With the rise of social media, we are connected/can connect to every person on this planet. We are just a text away from anyone around the world even then we have just grown to be more and more emotionally isolated. A lot has changed in the way we live our lives but still, we crave a deep connection with people around us and that is one of the most necessary survival needs of human beings. 

Loneliness is a silent pandemic spreading throughout the world without anyone realizing it. It isn’t about being alone, you could be surrounded by people and still feel like you don’t belong with them like something is wrong, you know, for some mysterious reason, it just doesn’t feel right. But we continue hanging out with them because we rather not be seen alone than feel lonely and hurting ourselves even more. We feel that being alone is equivalent to being a loser and no one wants that, who wants to be a loser right?. This is perhaps the biggest problem and it makes us do crazy stuff like people-pleasing where we only end up hurting, embarrassing, and resenting ourselves.

Our childhood plays a major role in the way we respond to situations during our adult life. We all go through different experiences, some of us are lucky and have a wonderful childhood which consequently (mostly) leads to better and healthy adult life but some of us see the worst as kids and this impacts us the most, when we grow up, we become insecure, feel anxious, feel a disconnect from everyone around us, feel not worthy of anything or anyone and to add a new dimension to this issue, much of our generation today is obsessed with being popular online, uploading the coolest photos, getting thousands of likes and followers. It’s pathetic that we are surviving on this shallow sense of approval and virtual grandiosity.

Not many are aware of the fact that they cannot spend some quality time with themselves and what I mean by this is - we cannot sit alone in a room and feel peace or happiness or gratitude or any positive feeling. We need something to cheer us up and that’s where our mobile phone comes into the picture which constantly keeps us entertained and we never learn to live by ourselves. This behavior also reflects in the relationships we have with people where the only aim is to avoid being alone irrespective of whether these relationships make you happy or not.

A lot of things change when we start having fun alone. When we feel a sense of tranquillity in being with ourselves ALONE. It’s probably the most important life skill one must know/learn. It represents the sense of belonging and the kind of relationship we have with ourselves. This concept can seem quite alienating to many but I strongly feel this to be true and the day we start being comfortably alone, we would no longer be lonely... even though alone. 

The best part of this would be that - we would walk away from relationships that are unhealthy for us because we are no longer contained by the fear of being alone and naturally make space for better relationships and healthier life. 
